# Fermions in a massive vector background: a cosmological study
Advisors: Adrià Gómez Valent, Jordi Salvadó Serra

We propose a model of interactions between fermions and a massive vector field. The mass of this bosonic mediator determines the effective range of the derived forces, spanning scales from cosmological to galactic or even smaller. An action for this interaction model is postulated, where the fermionic candidates are neutrinos and dark matter particles. From it, we derive the classical solutions for the vector field, and we seek the modifications produced by the inclusion of such a vectorial background in the equations of motion of the fermions. Microphysical properties, including production rates, scattering cross-sections, and decay widths of both vector and Dirac particles, are also derived. These rates enable us to track the non-trivial evolution of the particle populations during the expansion of the Universe. By systematically proving the parameter space, we find that specific physical observables impose constraints on each region. To conclude, three particular scenarios with non-standard contributions from our interaction to the $\Lambda$-Cold Dark Matter model are discussed: the rise on the effective number of neutrino species, the abundances of particles produced during the Big Bang Nucleosynthesis, and the effects of classical solutions on the equation of state of the early universe fluid.


In this repository, we present the complementary Python notebooks for each case of the section Phenomenology. There is also the implemented code that allows us to analyse the parameter space.

